---
description: "Giving back to the CLP community through investing in the incoming freshman class."
featured_image: "/images/common_good_ta_3.jpeg"
date: "2023-12-11"
title: "Legacy Project - Class of 2027 CLP Seminar"
---

As a part of the final senior class in CLP, students are required to participate in a **legacy project** - a team capstone project with the goal of giving back to Gonzaga, either directly to the CLP community or to the Gonzaga community as a whole. For our project, we led the *CLP Seminar*. The CLP Seminar is an event held the weekend after the incoming freshman class is selected and notified of their acceptance. The goal of the seminar is to get the students excited to start in the spring, as well as to introduce them to their classmates which they will share for the next four years. Together with other seniors, I helped come up with the activities that students participated in.

The seminar started with us giving a presentation on the outlook on the program, the entire group did a speed dating activity with rapid fire icebreaker questions and rotating partners. Then, students were divided into teams to do the classic egg drop challenge. There's many different variations on the rules of the activity, but we gave each team a starter kit of tools and then required each team to use one "weird" tool from our weird pile (including tissues, metal soda cans, and more wacko items).

After lunch, we divided the cohort into three random groups and had 30 minute rotations of activities. For my activity, I led a leadership game called Point The Finger. The basic premise is to have the group stand in a circle and point at each other to create two random orders of people. The goal of the game is to have the group recite both patterns successfully *at the same time*. If they can do this, you can make the game more challenging by replacing names with other categories - favorite fruit, favorite animal, favorite state, etc.

This entire event was so much fun to plan and execute. We had the opportunity to build excitement among the incoming freshman class, but this comes with its own challenges. For starters, we had no clue what their freshman experience was like so far. Some of these students might be coming in incredibly extroverted and living up their college experience. Some students might have been taking a risk just applying to this program. We had to be careful to create an environment where everyone would feel included and valued. To help do this, we came up with ways in which we could contribute our best strengths to the event. If each of us chipped in with something that we were good at after our experience in CLP, we could be able to catch the attention of the freshman. After my experience in CLP, my strength and calling was mentoring and teaching - as reflected through my TA experience in CLP. Others in the group knew how to insert humor to lighten a situation and open a space to be more comfortable, so those people ran a Family Feud game and kicked back. Others were incredibly good at goal setting and vision casting, so they taught a master class on how to effectively set your expectations for their time in CLP. Because we all contributed to planning a part of the event related to our strengths, we were able to successfully foster that excitement for the spring semester. I couldn't help but walk away excited and energized after working with these freshman. They constantly had smiles on their faces no matter what activity we threw at them. More importantly, they started settling into having difficult conversations, failing, and learning from those failures. The curiosity and enthusiasm was so inspiring for all of us to watch. Additionally, it gives us friendly faces that we can look for at the beginning of the spring semester when they are in their first leadership class.